---
title: Support
banner: Support Us
layout: post
image: banner.jpg
---

#### THE EFFORTS-EXPENDITURE & EVOLUTION:

Ashram’s assets were a mere two thatched huts in the year 2003 and from that year on words the progress has been steady and many fold and multi-dimensional, as was foretold by BABAJI.  Nearly Rs. 7 crores worth of assets in land buildings and temples have come into the fold of the ashram.  All this was possible only through the generous donations and contributions from Babaji’s devotees and good intentioned people that have come in contact with the ashram on one hand and the untiring efforts and planning of Sri Jagga Babu the managing trustee of the Ashram, on the other hand.  Under the able leadership of Sri. Jagga babu the Ashram is inching towards realizing the stupendous tasks set by Babaji.  Thus far the Ashram has got 186 cows all donated by several devotees of Babaji.  The ashram has constructed  two pucca cattle sheds of 33ftx66ft each, at a cost of four lakh ruppees.  Each of these sheds can accommodate 35 cattle each  The final strength of the cattle, in the Gosala, is going to be around one thousand and the cost of sheds alone, to accommodate these, is going to be rupees 150 lakhs.  The cost of maintaining the present 186 cattle is working out to be rupees three lakhs per month.

The Ashram has spent nearly rupees 4 crores on civil works that include 1.  Samadhi mandir, 2.  Kalyan mandapam, 3.  Eight rooms to accommodate visiting devotees and also offices of the ashram. 4.  Nearly 65 acres of land donated by devotees and purchased by the Ashram at different places 5.  Temple complex under construction  6.  A shed to house an Elephant, under construction  7.  Ten rooms accommodation under construction  8.  Four suite accommodation under construction at Goshala site for visiting devotees and 9. Two small temples under construction at Goshala site.

The expenses on daily poojas at the Samadhi is about Rs. 60,000 per month.  The honorarium paid to volunteers(Sevaks) is about Rs.  2,00,000 per month.  The cost of serving food on Monday is about Rs. 10,000 /- per day on an average and it is Rs. 4000 /- per day for rest of the six days of the week.  This does not include the expenses on special functions, the cost of maintenance and the cost of establishment.

The only source of income for worship, maintenance, Annadana and construction work is, donations from devotees,their friends and their acquaintances.  After several deliberations the management has decided to request and appeal to all for donations and framed the following guidelines.

- Sthupa : The cost Each sthupa  is estimated to be Rs, 58,320 /- and any person’s name or a name suggested by him or her donating this amount, will be inscribed permanently near the sthupa.

- Annadana: Irrespective of the amount that is spent for Annadana on a particular day any amount, small or big, subjected to a maximum of Rs. 10,000 /- on any Monday and Rs, 4000 /- on any other day of the week, except on a day of special importance, will be accepted as Annadana donation and the name of the donor or any name suggested by the donor will be displayed on the Annadana board, on any particular day suggested by the donor.

- There is no limit for construction donation, lower or upper.

- There are few Arjita – Sevas (Poojas) that will be performed on the request of the devotees, like Archana, Abhishekam, Annaprasana, Satyavrata, Pallakiseva etc.,  Each of these poojas will be performed on payment and prasadam will be give or sent by post, in case of the devotee, not able to be present at the time of pooja, in the ashram

- Godana :  Devotees wanting to donate a cow to the Ashram have to bring their own cow, if they have one or purchase from the market. Godana pooja will be conducted for Rs. 216 /- and the donor must pay Rs. 3650 /- towards the maintenance of the cow for one year.

- Adoption of a cow :  Those who can not afford to buy a cow can also participate in Godana scheme by adopting a cow for any length of period ranging from one month to the life time of a  cow by paying its maintenance cost @Rs. 1000 /- per month.

All the donations to the Ashram are exempt from income tax under 80G of income tax Act.  For all the donations to the Ashram original/genuine receipts will be given.

Dear viewer of this website your contribution to the cause of the Ashram will go a long way in helping the Ashram, in enhancing your prosperity and providing internal peace and tranquility and would also bring you and your loved ones, blessing of Babaji.

## Online Bank Transfer

Use your Online Bank Account to donate online to our bank account from any part of the world. Our bank account details are as follows:

For Donations:

---
Sadguru Sri Chittibabaji

Samsthanam Charitable Trust,

Ac No: 107010100223706,

IFS Code : UTIB0000107,

Axis Bank, Rajahmundry.

---

Sadguru Sri Chittibabaji

Samsthanam Charitable Trust,

Ac No: 52134571012,

IFS Code : SBHY0020339,

State Bank of Hyderabad (SBH),

Rajahmundry.

---


